README.md, before:

# Task Queue - Advanced Task Orchestration System

## Overview

Task Queue is an advanced task orchestration system built in Rust, specifically designed for the HiveLLM ecosystem. It provides advanced features beyond traditional message queues like Redis/RabbitMQ.

## Key Features

### 🎯 **Dependency Management**
- **Task Dependencies**: Tasks can depend on other tasks completing successfully
- **Conditional Execution**: Tasks execute only when dependencies are satisfied
- **Dependency Graphs**: Visual representation of task relationships
- **Circular Dependency Detection**: Prevents infinite loops

### 📊 **Vectorizer Integration**
- **Interaction Persistence**: All task interactions are stored in vectorizer
- **Semantic Search**: Search task history and patterns
- **Context Awareness**: Tasks have rich context from previous executions
- **Learning System**: System learns from task execution patterns

### ⚡ **High Performance**
- **Rust Performance**: Native speed with memory safety
- **Local Storage**: Embedded database for persistence
- **Concurrent Processing**: Parallel task execution
- **Resource Management**: Intelligent resource allocation

### 🔄 **Advanced Orchestration**
- **Workflow Management**: Complex multi-step workflows
- **Retry Logic**: Intelligent retry with exponential backoff
- **Timeout Handling**: Configurable timeouts per task type
- **Priority Queues**: Task prioritization system

### 🛡️ **Reliability**
- **Task Integrity**: Cryptographic task validation
- **Crash Recovery**: Automatic recovery from failures
- **Audit Trail**: Complete execution history
- **Health Monitoring**: System health checks

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Task Queue Server                           │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  ┌─────────────┐  ┌─────────────┐  ┌─────────────┐             │
│  │   Task      │  │ Dependency  │  │ Vectorizer  │             │
│  │  Manager    │  │  Resolver   │  │ Integration │             │
│  └─────────────┘  └─────────────┘  └─────────────┘             │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  ┌─────────────┐  ┌─────────────┐  ┌─────────────┐             │
│  │   Storage   │  │   Metrics   │  │   Health    │             │
│  │   Engine    │  │  Collector  │  │  Monitor    │             │
│  └─────────────┘  └─────────────┘  └─────────────┘             │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  ┌─────────────┐  ┌─────────────┐  ┌─────────────┐             │
│  │   GRPC      │  │   HTTP      │  │   MCP       │             │
│  │   Server    │  │   Server    │  │   Server    │             │
│  └─────────────┘  └─────────────┘  └─────────────┘             │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Task Types

### 1. **Simple Tasks**
- Independent tasks with no dependencies
- Immediate execution when resources available
- Basic retry logic

### 2. **Dependent Tasks**
- Tasks that depend on other tasks completing
- Automatic dependency resolution
- Conditional execution based on dependency results

### 3. **Workflow Tasks**
- Complex multi-step workflows
- Branching and merging logic
- Parallel and sequential execution

### 4. **Scheduled Tasks**
- Time-based task execution
- Cron-like scheduling
- Recurring task support

## Dependency System

### Dependency Types

#### **Success Dependency**
```rust
Task::new("build-api")
    .depends_on("run-tests")
    .with_condition(DependencyCondition::Success)
```

#### **Failure Dependency**
```rust
Task::new("notify-failure")
    .depends_on("deploy")
    .with_condition(DependencyCondition::Failure)
```

#### **Completion Dependency**
```rust
Task::new("cleanup")
    .depends_on("deploy")
    .with_condition(DependencyCondition::Completion)
```

#### **Custom Condition**
```rust
Task::new("conditional-task")
    .depends_on("test-coverage")
    .with_condition(DependencyCondition::Custom(|result| {
        result.coverage_percentage >= 80.0
    }))
```

### Dependency Resolution

```rust
// Example: Dashboard depends on API being ready
let dashboard_task = Task::new("create-dashboard")
    .depends_on("api-ready")
    .with_condition(DependencyCondition::Success)
    .with_timeout(Duration::from_secs(300));

// API task must complete successfully before dashboard starts
let api_task = Task::new("api-ready")
    .with_command("start-api-server")
    .with_health_check("/api/health");
```

## Vectorizer Integration

### Interaction Persistence

Every task interaction is automatically stored in the vectorizer:

```rust
// Task execution context
let context = TaskContext {
    task_id: "build-api",
    project: "hivellm-governance",
    dependencies: vec!["run-tests"],
    parameters: json!({
        "build_type": "production",
        "optimize": true
    }),
    execution_time: Duration::from_secs(45),
    result: TaskResult::Success,
    artifacts: vec!["api-server", "documentation"]
};

// Automatically stored in vectorizer
vectorizer.store_task_interaction(context).await?;
```

### Semantic Search

Search task history and patterns:

```rust
// Find similar tasks
let similar_tasks = vectorizer.search_tasks(
    "API deployment with tests",
    SearchOptions {
        project: Some("hivellm-governance"),
        task_type: Some("deployment"),
        limit: 10
    }
).await?;

// Get task recommendations
let recommendations = vectorizer.get_task_recommendations(
    "build-api",
    RecommendationOptions {
        include_dependencies: true,
        include_artifacts: true
    }
).await?;
```

## Usage Examples

### Basic Task Creation

```rust
use task_queue::{TaskQueue, Task, TaskType};

let mut queue = TaskQueue::new().await?;

// Simple task
let simple_task = Task::new("hello-world")
    .with_command("echo 'Hello, World!'")
    .with_type(TaskType::Simple);

queue.submit_task(simple_task).await?;
```

### Dependency Chain

```rust
// Test coverage must be >= 80% before deployment
let test_task = Task::new("run-tests")
    .with_command("npm test -- --coverage")
    .with_validation(|result| {
        result.coverage_percentage >= 80.0
    });

let deploy_task = Task::new("deploy")
    .depends_on("run-tests")
    .with_condition(DependencyCondition::Success)
    .with_command("npm run deploy");

queue.submit_tasks(vec![test_task, deploy_task]).await?;
```

### Complex Workflow

```rust
// Multi-step deployment workflow
let workflow = Workflow::new("production-deployment")
    .add_task(Task::new("run-tests")
        .with_command("npm test")
        .with_parallel_execution(true))
    .add_task(Task::new("build-docker")
        .depends_on("run-tests")
        .with_condition(DependencyCondition::Success))
    .add_task(Task::new("deploy-staging")
        .depends_on("build-docker")
        .with_condition(DependencyCondition::Success))
    .add_task(Task::new("run-integration-tests")
        .depends_on("deploy-staging")
        .with_condition(DependencyCondition::Success))
    .add_task(Task::new("deploy-production")
        .depends_on("run-integration-tests")
        .with_condition(DependencyCondition::Success)
        .with_manual_approval(true));

queue.submit_workflow(workflow).await?;
```

## Configuration

### Server Configuration

```yaml
# config.yml
server:
  host: "0.0.0.0"
  port: 16080
  grpc_port: 16081
  mcp_port: 16082

storage:
  database_path: "./data/task-queue.db"
  backup_interval: "1h"
  retention_days: 30

vectorizer:
  endpoint: "http://localhost:15002"
  collection: "task-interactions"
  auto_index: true

execution:
  max_concurrent_tasks: 10
  default_timeout: "5m"
  retry_attempts: 3
  retry_delay: "1s"

monitoring:
  metrics_enabled: true
  metrics_port: 9090
  health_check_interval: "30s"
```

## Client SDKs

### Rust Client

```rust
use task_queue_client::TaskQueueClient;

let client = TaskQueueClient::new("http://localhost:16080").await?;

// Submit task
let task_id = client.submit_task(Task::new("build")
    .with_command("cargo build")
    .with_project("my-project")).await?;

// Check status
let status = client.get_task_status(&task_id).await?;

// Get result
let result = client.get_task_result(&task_id).await?;
```

### TypeScript Client

```typescript
import { TaskQueueClient } from '@hivellm/task-queue-client';

const client = new TaskQueueClient('http://localhost:16080');

// Submit task
const taskId = await client.submitTask({
  name: 'build',
  command: 'npm run build',
  project: 'my-project',
  dependencies: ['test']
});

// Monitor progress
const status = await client.getTaskStatus(taskId);
```

### Python Client

```python
from task_queue_client import TaskQueueClient

client = TaskQueueClient('http://localhost:16080')

# Submit task
task_id = client.submit_task(
    name='build',
    command='python setup.py build',
    project='my-project',
    dependencies=['test']
)

# Get result
result = client.get_task_result(task_id)
```

## Dev Tools Integration

The dev-tools MCP server will use task-queue for orchestration:

```typescript
// Dev-tools integration
class DevToolsMCPServer {
  private taskQueue: TaskQueueClient;

  async executeComplexWorkflow(workflow: WorkflowDefinition) {
    // Submit to task-queue
    const workflowId = await this.taskQueue.submitWorkflow({
      name: workflow.name,
      tasks: workflow.tasks,
      dependencies: workflow.dependencies
    });

    // Monitor execution
    const status = await this.taskQueue.getWorkflowStatus(workflowId);
    
    return {
      workflowId,
      status,
      results: await this.taskQueue.getWorkflowResults(workflowId)
    };
  }
}
```

## Performance Characteristics

- **Throughput**: 10,000+ tasks/second
- **Latency**: < 1ms for task submission
- **Concurrency**: 100+ concurrent tasks
- **Storage**: Efficient binary serialization
- **Memory**: < 100MB base usage
- **CPU**: Optimized for multi-core systems

## Security Features

- **Task Integrity**: SHA-256 task validation
- **Access Control**: Role-based permissions
- **Audit**: Complete execution trail
- **Sandboxing**: Isolated task execution
- **Resource Limits**: CPU, memory and time limits

This task-queue system provides the advanced orchestration capabilities needed for the HiveLLM ecosystem, maintaining high performance and reliability.

Commit message:

Add CHANGELOG.md for tracking notable changes, update README.md to reference changelog, enhance start.sh and stop.sh scripts for better process management, and improve vectorizer integration with new API endpoints and configuration options.

README.md, after:

# Task Queue - Advanced Task Orchestration System

## Overview

Task Queue is an advanced task orchestration system built in Rust, specifically designed for the HiveLLM ecosystem. It provides advanced features beyond traditional message queues like Redis/RabbitMQ.

## Key Features

### 🎯 **Dependency Management**
- **Task Dependencies**: Tasks can depend on other tasks completing successfully
- **Conditional Execution**: Tasks execute only when dependencies are satisfied
- **Dependency Graphs**: Visual representation of task relationships
- **Circular Dependency Detection**: Prevents infinite loops

### 📊 **Vectorizer Integration**
- **Interaction Persistence**: All task interactions are stored in vectorizer
- **Semantic Search**: Search task history and patterns
- **Context Awareness**: Tasks have rich context from previous executions
- **Learning System**: System learns from task execution patterns
- **Vectorizer v0.3.0**: Compatible with latest Vectorizer interface
- **Collection Management**: Automatic collection creation and management

### ⚡ **High Performance**
- **Rust Performance**: Native speed with memory safety
- **Local Storage**: Embedded database for persistence
- **Concurrent Processing**: Parallel task execution
- **Resource Management**: Intelligent resource allocation

### 🔄 **Advanced Orchestration**
- **Workflow Management**: Complex multi-step workflows
- **Retry Logic**: Intelligent retry with exponential backoff
- **Timeout Handling**: Configurable timeouts per task type
- **Priority Queues**: Task prioritization system

### 🛡️ **Reliability**
- **Task Integrity**: Cryptographic task validation
- **Crash Recovery**: Automatic recovery from failures
- **Audit Trail**: Complete execution history
- **Health Monitoring**: System health checks

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Task Queue Server                           │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  ┌─────────────┐  ┌─────────────┐  ┌─────────────┐             │
│  │   Task      │  │ Dependency  │  │ Vectorizer  │             │
│  │  Manager    │  │  Resolver   │  │ Integration │             │
│  └─────────────┘  └─────────────┘  └─────────────┘             │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  ┌─────────────┐  ┌─────────────┐  ┌─────────────┐             │
│  │   Storage   │  │   Metrics   │  │   Health    │             │
│  │   Engine    │  │  Collector  │  │  Monitor    │             │
│  └─────────────┘  └─────────────┘  └─────────────┘             │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  ┌─────────────┐  ┌─────────────┐  ┌─────────────┐             │
│  │   GRPC      │  │   HTTP      │  │   MCP       │             │
│  │   Server    │  │   Server    │  │   Server    │             │
│  └─────────────┘  └─────────────┘  └─────────────┘             │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Task Types

### 1. **Simple Tasks**
- Independent tasks with no dependencies
- Immediate execution when resources available
- Basic retry logic

### 2. **Dependent Tasks**
- Tasks that depend on other tasks completing
- Automatic dependency resolution
- Conditional execution based on dependency results

### 3. **Workflow Tasks**
- Complex multi-step workflows
- Branching and merging logic
- Parallel and sequential execution

### 4. **Scheduled Tasks**
- Time-based task execution
- Cron-like scheduling
- Recurring task support

## Dependency System

### Dependency Types

#### **Success Dependency**
```rust
Task::new("build-api")
    .depends_on("run-tests")
    .with_condition(DependencyCondition::Success)
```

#### **Failure Dependency**
```rust
Task::new("notify-failure")
    .depends_on("deploy")
    .with_condition(DependencyCondition::Failure)
```

#### **Completion Dependency**
```rust
Task::new("cleanup")
    .depends_on("deploy")
    .with_condition(DependencyCondition::Completion)
```

#### **Custom Condition**
```rust
Task::new("conditional-task")
    .depends_on("test-coverage")
    .with_condition(DependencyCondition::Custom(|result| {
        result.coverage_percentage >= 80.0
    }))
```

### Dependency Resolution

```rust
// Example: Dashboard depends on API being ready
let dashboard_task = Task::new("create-dashboard")
    .depends_on("api-ready")
    .with_condition(DependencyCondition::Success)
    .with_timeout(Duration::from_secs(300));

// API task must complete successfully before dashboard starts
let api_task = Task::new("api-ready")
    .with_command("start-api-server")
    .with_health_check("/api/health");
```

## Vectorizer Integration

### Interaction Persistence

Every task interaction is automatically stored in the vectorizer:

```rust
// Task execution context
let context = TaskContext {
    task_id: "build-api",
    project: "hivellm-governance",
    dependencies: vec!["run-tests"],
    parameters: json!({
        "build_type": "production",
        "optimize": true
    }),
    execution_time: Duration::from_secs(45),
    result: TaskResult::Success,
    artifacts: vec!["api-server", "documentation"]
};

// Automatically stored in vectorizer
vectorizer.store_task_interaction(context).await?;
```

### Semantic Search

Search task history and patterns:

```rust
// Find similar tasks
let similar_tasks = vectorizer.search_tasks(
    "API deployment with tests",
    SearchOptions {
        project: Some("hivellm-governance"),
        task_type: Some("deployment"),
        limit: 10
    }
).await?;

// Get task recommendations
let recommendations = vectorizer.get_task_recommendations(
    "build-api",
    RecommendationOptions {
        include_dependencies: true,
        include_artifacts: true
    }
).await?;
```

## Usage Examples

### Basic Task Creation

```rust
use task_queue::{TaskQueue, Task, TaskType};

let mut queue = TaskQueue::new().await?;

// Simple task
let simple_task = Task::new("hello-world")
    .with_command("echo 'Hello, World!'")
    .with_type(TaskType::Simple);

queue.submit_task(simple_task).await?;
```

### Dependency Chain

```rust
// Test coverage must be >= 80% before deployment
let test_task = Task::new("run-tests")
    .with_command("npm test -- --coverage")
    .with_validation(|result| {
        result.coverage_percentage >= 80.0
    });

let deploy_task = Task::new("deploy")
    .depends_on("run-tests")
    .with_condition(DependencyCondition::Success)
    .with_command("npm run deploy");

queue.submit_tasks(vec![test_task, deploy_task]).await?;
```

### Complex Workflow

```rust
// Multi-step deployment workflow
let workflow = Workflow::new("production-deployment")
    .add_task(Task::new("run-tests")
        .with_command("npm test")
        .with_parallel_execution(true))
    .add_task(Task::new("build-docker")
        .depends_on("run-tests")
        .with_condition(DependencyCondition::Success))
    .add_task(Task::new("deploy-staging")
        .depends_on("build-docker")
        .with_condition(DependencyCondition::Success))
    .add_task(Task::new("run-integration-tests")
        .depends_on("deploy-staging")
        .with_condition(DependencyCondition::Success))
    .add_task(Task::new("deploy-production")
        .depends_on("run-integration-tests")
        .with_condition(DependencyCondition::Success)
        .with_manual_approval(true));

queue.submit_workflow(workflow).await?;
```

## Configuration

### Server Configuration

```yaml
# config.yml
server:
  host: "0.0.0.0"
  port: 16080
  grpc_port: 16081
  mcp_port: 16082

storage:
  database_path: "./data/task-queue.db"
  backup_interval: "1h"
  retention_days: 30

vectorizer:
  endpoint: "http://localhost:15002"
  collection: "task-interactions"
  auto_index: true

execution:
  max_concurrent_tasks: 10
  default_timeout: "5m"
  retry_attempts: 3
  retry_delay: "1s"

monitoring:
  metrics_enabled: true
  metrics_port: 9090
  health_check_interval: "30s"
```

## Client SDKs

### Rust Client

```rust
use task_queue_client::TaskQueueClient;

let client = TaskQueueClient::new("http://localhost:16080").await?;

// Submit task
let task_id = client.submit_task(Task::new("build")
    .with_command("cargo build")
    .with_project("my-project")).await?;

// Check status
let status = client.get_task_status(&task_id).await?;

// Get result
let result = client.get_task_result(&task_id).await?;
```

### TypeScript Client

```typescript
import { TaskQueueClient } from '@hivellm/task-queue-client';

const client = new TaskQueueClient('http://localhost:16080');

// Submit task
const taskId = await client.submitTask({
  name: 'build',
  command: 'npm run build',
  project: 'my-project',
  dependencies: ['test']
});

// Monitor progress
const status = await client.getTaskStatus(taskId);
```

### Python Client

```python
from task_queue_client import TaskQueueClient

client = TaskQueueClient('http://localhost:16080')

# Submit task
task_id = client.submit_task(
    name='build',
    command='python setup.py build',
    project='my-project',
    dependencies=['test']
)

# Get result
result = client.get_task_result(task_id)
```

## Dev Tools Integration

The dev-tools MCP server will use task-queue for orchestration:

```typescript
// Dev-tools integration
class DevToolsMCPServer {
  private taskQueue: TaskQueueClient;

  async executeComplexWorkflow(workflow: WorkflowDefinition) {
    // Submit to task-queue
    const workflowId = await this.taskQueue.submitWorkflow({
      name: workflow.name,
      tasks: workflow.tasks,
      dependencies: workflow.dependencies
    });

    // Monitor execution
    const status = await this.taskQueue.getWorkflowStatus(workflowId);
    
    return {
      workflowId,
      status,
      results: await this.taskQueue.getWorkflowResults(workflowId)
    };
  }
}
```

## Performance Characteristics

- **Throughput**: 10,000+ tasks/second
- **Latency**: < 1ms for task submission
- **Concurrency**: 100+ concurrent tasks
- **Storage**: Efficient binary serialization
- **Memory**: < 100MB base usage
- **CPU**: Optimized for multi-core systems

## Security Features

- **Task Integrity**: SHA-256 task validation
- **Access Control**: Role-based permissions
- **Audit**: Complete execution trail
- **Sandboxing**: Isolated task execution
- **Resource Limits**: CPU, memory and time limits

This task-queue system provides the advanced orchestration capabilities needed for the HiveLLM ecosystem, maintaining high performance and reliability.

## Documentation

- [Complete Documentation](docs/COMPLETE_DOCUMENTATION.md) - Comprehensive system documentation
- [API Documentation](docs/API_DOCUMENTATION.md) - HTTP API reference
- [Vectorizer Integration](docs/VECTORIZER_INTEGRATION.md) - Advanced semantic search integration
- [Development Roadmap](docs/DEVELOPMENT_ROADMAP.md) - Future development plans
- [Testing Guide](docs/TESTING_EXECUTION_GUIDE.md) - Testing and validation procedures

## Changelog

See [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) for a detailed list of changes and updates.
